View > Toggle Timestamps shows when each line was last modified.
Right click a selection and choose "Annotate Selection" to add a personal note to it.
Middle-click on a tab closes it.
Use Cmd-Option-C to preserve style, including fonts and colors. You can make this the default in Prefs > Advanced.
Semantic History (cmd-click) can ignore hard newlines in the middle of a URL via  setting in Prefs > Advanced.
The Shell Integration feature lets you ask to be alerted (Cmd-Opt-A) when a long-running command completes.
You can configure how quickly the cursor blinks in Prefs > Advanced.
The Shell Integration feature lets you nagivate among shell prompts with Cmd-Shift-Up/Down Arrow.
The Shell Integration feature puts a blue arrow next to your shell prompt that turns red if the command fails.
Right click on your shell prompt when using Shell Integration to see how long a command took to run, its return code, and other info.
With Shell Integration installed, you can select the output of the last command with Cmd-Shift-A.
The dock icon shows a badge with the number of bells rung and notifications posted since the app was active.
If you install Shell Integration on a machine you ssh to, you can right click on a filename and choose "Download with scp".
If you install Shell Integration on a machine you ssh to, you can drag-drop from Finder into the remote host by holding Option & dragging.
Press Cmd-/ to locate your cursor. It's fun!
Quadruple click to perform Smart Selection. It figures out if you're selecting a URL, filename, email address, etc.
You can edit Smart Selection regular expressions in Prefs > Profiles > Advanced.
Assign an action to a Smart Selection rule in Prefs > Profiles > Advanced > Smart Selection > Edit Actions. They go in the context menu.
If you want the visual bell to flash the whole screen instead of show a bell icon, you can turn that on in Prefs > Advanced.
Right click on a tab to close other tabs or close tabs to its right.
Click the "Tags" button in Prefs > Profiles or the Profiles Window to browse your profiles' tags.
Name a profile's tag with a slash in the middle to create a hierarchy of tags, visible in the Profiles menu as nested submenus.
Use this script to download files from remote hosts over your existing ssh connection: https://iterm2.com/download.sh
Cmd-Click on a file or URL to open it.
Use this script to show images (even animated GIFs) inline in your terminal: https://iterm2.com/imgcat
If you install Shell Integration, Cmd-Opt-/ helps you complete commands based on your history. Separate history per hostname.
Install Shell Integration and you can star favorite commands in the "Command History" tool in the Toolbelt by right clicking on one.
Install Shell Integration and you can star favorite directories in the "Recent Directories" tool in the Toolbelt by right clicking on one.
Install shell history and turn on Prefs > General > Save copy/paste and command history to disk to remember command history per host.
Copy a file to the pasteboard in Finder and then use Edit > Paste Special > Paste File Base64-Encoded for easy uploads of binary files.
There's a searchable list of your recent commands in the Command History tool in the toolbelt for Shell Integration users.
Use Cmd+Ctrl+Arrow key to resize split panes.
Option+Click moves the cursor in editors. Install Shell Integration and it will move the cursor around in your shell prompt correctly.
Cmd+Option+; shows a cursor guide across the screen so you always know where it is.
You can resize top-of-screen windows by dragging their bottom edge (similar for left-, bottom-, and right-of screen windows).
You can assign a tab color to a profile in Prefs > Profiles > Colors.
If you want a hotkey window to stay open when it loses focus, there's a setting for that under Prefs > Profiles > Keys.
You can make multiple discontinuous selections by holding Cmd and dragging a new selection.
Adjust Cursor Boost in Prefs > Profiles > Colors to make all colors darker except the cursor. Use a bright white cursor and it pops!
Adjust Minimum Contrast in Prefs > Profiles > Colors to ensure text is always legible regardless of text/background color combination.
Did you know? iTerm2 parses its input in a background thread to maximize performance.
Want a scroll gesture/scroll wheel to send arrow keys when in alternate screen mode? Turn it on in Prefs > Advanced.
Press Cmd-Ctrl-Space to type emoji characters.
Press Cmd-Opt-B to go back in time. Use shift+arrow keys to nagivate time quickly, or arrow keys to go frame by frame.
There's a setting under Prefs > Advanced that lets you change whether new tabs appear at the end or next to your current tab.
Right click on a number to see its hex value. Right click on a hex value to see its decimal value.
You can make a keystroke perform a search for a regex using the "Find Regular Expression..." action in a key binding.
Search for URLs using Edit > Find > Find URLs. Navigate search results with Cmd-G and Cmd-Shift-G. Open the selection with Cmd-Opt-O.
Automatic Profile Switching changes the current profile when the username, hostname, or directory changes. See Prefs > Profiles > Advanced.
If your only window is the hotkey window, choose Don't Open Any Windows under Prefs > General > Startup.
Did you know iTerm2 has a password manager? Window > Password Manager. You can define a Trigger to open it for you at a password prompt.
The "instant" checkbox in a Trigger allows it to fire while the cursor is on the same line as the text that matches your regex.
The Captured Output Trigger finds lines matching a regular expression and puts them in the Toolbelt. Useful for finding compiler errors.
Toggle Edit > Selection Respects Soft Boundaries to select text across multiple lines in vi, emacs, or tmux split panes.
You have 5 seconds after closing a session to bring it back with Edit > Undo. Adjust the timeout in Prefs > Profile > Session.
A session's Badge, settable in Prefs > Profiles > General, lets you see info about it at a glance. More at https://iterm2.com/badges.html
Press Cmd-Shift-O to quickly navigate to a session. Search by recent commands, directories, hostnames, and more. Can also open a tab.
Select text without dragging: single click where you want to start a selection and shift-click where you want it to end.
Hold Control while resizing a window and it won't snap to the character grid: you can make it any size you want.
If you paste text containing tabs, you'll be asked if you want to convert them to spaces. Handy at the shell prompt!
If the bell rings too often, you'll be asked if you'd like to silence it temporarily.
Dynamic Profiles let you store your profiles as individual JSON files. More here: https://iterm2.com/dynamic-profiles.html
Edit > Paste Special > Advanced Paste lets you preview before you paste and tweak lots of options.
Right-click on a selection and choose View > Zoom In on Selection. The session's contents will be temporarily replaced with the selection.
Profile search recognizes name: and tag: operators to restrict the search. ^ anchors the query term to the name's start, $ to the end.
